What is Docker file?
A Dockerfile is a plain text document that contains a set of instructions used to build a Docker image. It acts as a blueprint, detailing all the steps and components required 
to create a reproducible and consistent environment for an application or service within a Docker container. 

What is Docker Images?
A Docker image is a lightweight, standalone, and executable package that includes everything needed to run a piece of software—such as:
Code
Runtime
Libraries
Environment variables
Configuration files
Think of it as a blueprint or template for creating Docker containers

Each instruction in a Dockerfile represents a specific action during the image build process. Common instructions include:

FROM:
Specifies the base image upon which the new image will be built. This provides the foundational operating system and potentially pre-installed software.

RUN:
Executes commands within the image during the build process, such as installing packages, compiling code, or setting up configurations.

COPY:
Copies files or directories from the host machine (where the Dockerfile resides) into the image.

WORKDIR:
Sets the working directory inside the image for subsequent instructions.

EXPOSE:
Informs Docker that the container listens on the specified network ports at runtime.

CMD:
Sets the default command to be executed when a container is launched from the image.
When the docker build command is executed, Docker reads the Dockerfile line by line, executing each instruction sequentially to construct the image layers. This process 
ensures that the image is built consistently every time, regardless of the environment where it's created. Dockerfiles are crucial for achieving consistency, reproducibility, and 
automation in containerized application development and deployment.

Example Docker file:

FROM python:3.9
WORKDIR /app
COPY . .
RUN pip install -r requirements.txt
CMD ["python", "app.py"]

docker build -t my-python-app .  ----> This will create the docker image from the docker files.




